foreign
welcome to episode 7 of the cro
confidential podcast I'm your host Sam
blonde delighted to be here for another
incredible episode we have a real treat
on our hands Our Guest today is Hannah
Wilson Hannah is
um an amazing person and very close
friend of mine uh we worked together uh
at xenovitz at rainforest and just
continue to have this amazing
relationship where we catch up uh on
sort of like a bi-weekly basis it seems
and so hopefully
um today's episode will be a little bit
of the types of things that we talk
about in our uh casual conversations
that happen somewhat regularly
um as a bit of an intro Hannah is today
at modern health she's been there for
almost four years Hannah joined to win
the business was about 15 employees and
a few hundred thousand dollars in ARR
today Modern Health is north of a
hundred million dollars in ARR the
business is valued at over a billion
dollars Founders fund is a proud
investor as a side note but Hannah so
excited to have you and looking forward
to today's conversation yeah me too
thanks for having me
great well um we're gonna jump right in
the news of layoffs continues
um seems like every week There's a new
company doing a big layoff and uh uh
several companies in fact lots of
startups have missed their 2022 Revenue
goals
um forecasted slower growth for 2023
lots of talk around companies focused on
mitigating burn cutting costs extending
Runway well my personal perspective on
this which is relatively aligned with
Jason limkins is we've sort of returned
to normal
um normal is is still much more
challenging selling environment than
we've experienced over the last two to
three years
um and so today we're going to talk
about two things the first is how has
Modern Health adapted your sales
strategy in this new environment what
changes have you made that have been
most impactful and then the second thing
that we're going to talk about this is
sort of back to the reference of layoffs
how can a company determine the right
number of people to have on your sales
team we're going to start with number
one uh Hannah why don't you just tell us
a little bit about what you've
experienced in the selling environment
over the last six to nine months at
Modern Health yeah definitely and just
to set a little bit of context on on
Modern Health itself so people have a
good understanding of who we're selling
to so it's a comprehensive mental health
benefit that we sell to employers it's
everything from digital programs to
therapy and coaching we sell it to the
chief people officer as a benefit that
they can roll out alongside all of their
other benefits and we sell the companies
as small as 100 employees all the way up
to Fortune 100 companies the intels of
the world so we see a broad range of
companies I would say one thing that's
been consistent and I bet most sales
leaders would agree with this is that
the buying decisions which used to be
with the functional lead which in our
case is the chief people officer are now
oftentimes getting pushed to the CFO
sometimes the CEO we hear discussions
about boards and so it's really had to
change the way we sell given that we're
now selling to essentially a different
buyer in addition to our our traditional
buyer and then I would say on top of
that it's even more challenging because
oftentimes if you're selling to someone
that's not at the VP level or the C
Level it's really hard for them to sell
up internally in an environment where
they're constantly hearing you know
we're cutting budgets where we need to
do more with less and so those are just
some of the different Dynamics I mean
people are definitely still buying I
think we just need to change the way we
approach it
makes a ton of sense so it sounds like
more friction to getting deals done
today than what we'll call like the
heydays of 2021 and early 2022 and the
the friction exists uh because of some
budget cuts but really additional
stakeholders oftentimes in finance
entering the buying process and blocking
the deal do you think that's sort of
like a fair summation of what you've
experienced yeah we were definitely
seeing that more than we have in the
past awesome well that's helpful uh
context and and would love to learn and
I'm sure the listeners would as well
um how have you adapted your sales
strategy
yeah so I think there there's a couple
of things we're doing one you know we've
had to think more about how we talk
about the cost savings aspect and I
think a lot of companies are making this
shift as well because if you think about
it I mean when we were selling to the
chief people officer primarily they
would just get intuitively the
importance of offering a mental health
solution they would understand what the
you know the overall value to the
business was but now we need to equip
the them to basically have that
conversation with a CFO who has
different goals and priorities so we've
really had to think about well what
would a CFO care about and so our first
foray into that was thinking okay well
how can we better justify the true Roi
of what modern Health offers and so you
know we started to quantify what that
Roi is both in terms of what we think of
like soft or Roi what is the savings you
would get from you know reduced
attrition to like harder dollar Roi
which in some cases is very impactful in
terms of like if you're a large
self-insured employer you're actually
going to save money by moving you know
to a Next Generation Mental Health
Solution because you're paying less and
out-of-pocket therapy costs and there's
a whole number of reasons but really
equipping our sellers to be able to have
those conversations as it relates to
money and cost savings and actually we
had a
um a check in with our CSM at gong the
other day and we were looking at some of
the data and what we saw was that if if
AES are talking about money if they're
talking about Roi we actually double our
win rate and so that was real validation
of we need to be having these
conversations we need to be proactive
about it and we need to be equipping the
HR leader to go and sell that internally
because it's hard for them to go make
the business case when there's so much
pressure coming down from the top and so
being really specific with that HR buyer
of like this is how you should present
it these are the questions you might get
this is the pushback that you might get
and so we've done a lot of training
around Roi and talking about cost
savings
that's awesome so just uh quickly
summarizing what I've heard it sort of
like a big change that you have made is
around messaging and messaging
historically for your specific product
was probably things around like
remaining competitive in the marketplace
uh being able to offer the best benefits
to uh your employees uh retain Talent
those types of messages again back in
this sort of like 2021 and early 2022 uh
hyper competitive uh uh Talent
environment because that's what people
cared about and today your messaging has
evolved to
um hard dollar savings if a company is
self-insured they are paying out of
pocket for mental uh health treatment
for many of their employees your fee
structure is such that by just paying
something like ten dollars
the dollar dollars that they are paying
for that treatment will be lower than
the dollars that they are paying today
for the the mental health treatment of
their employees and so that's sort of
what you're leading with rather than
this remain competitive uh in acquiring
and keeping the best talent yeah I would
say that was our first reaction when we
started hearing that conversations were
getting to the CFO level was like okay
we've got to talk about cost savings and
in a number of areas we definitely do
have to talk about that and that's
really move the needle that said we
actually one of our AES posted on
LinkedIn about this the other day that
like CFOs aren't a monolith like they're
not just some like scary person that
sits behind a you know a curtain and
makes decisions just based on dollars
and so we tried to figure out like okay
like how do we demystify the role of the
CFO and one of the ways that we did that
was we actually set up a meeting with
our CFO we have a really awesome CFO at
Modern Health he's been at large public
companies he's been at small startups
and so we just invited him to come to a
sales meeting and we said okay how would
you make decisions like what do you need
to to hear and what he said was actually
a little bit surprising to some of us it
wasn't you know he said I do get a lot
of Roi cases from vendors that are
trying to sell into us and I can pretty
easily poke holes through most of those
Roi cases so I actually don't look at
the ROI what I actually do is I'll talk
to the functional leader they know their
function better and I'll ask them like
you know if if there's one resource that
you need what is it and he said it's the
sort of conviction that that particular
functional lead in our case the CPO
would bring he said if our CPO came and
was like I cannot get rid of Modern
Health this is the one benefit I need
like he's like that's really what would
make more of an impact to me and so then
we started to think about okay so one we
need to better understand like who is it
that we're selling to what kind of CFO
is it that's making these decisions
what's going to resonate with them and
we actually did a training earlier in
the year led by Mariana Kessel one of
our really strong Enterprise sales
leaders it was all around these We
Believe statements and I know there's
been a lot on on YouTube and places
about using leave statements but it's
really coming from a place of you know
we're in a competitive environment we
need to differentiate ourselves so it's
leading conversations with this is what
we believe you might not if you don't
believe this maybe a competitor is
better for you but this is truly what we
believe and you know the same
conversation that we had with gong last
week where we were looking at our
conversion rates we saw that when we use
these We Believe statements and this
approach to selling we actually double
our conversion rates as well and so what
was so powerful to that about me but
what I was starting to think about was
in this environment like the conviction
of the buyer there's so much hesitation
about making big purchases there's so
much messaging coming down from the top
about cost cutting you need to give your
buyers that that confidence and one of
the ways you can do that as a seller is
to have that conviction and to talk
about this is what we believe
um and so I think that's been really
powerful as well
so much uh included in that answer that
we could drill into uh one one of the
first ones you mentioned this like we
believe type statement can you give an
example like what what is the We Believe
statement that's been really effective
uh for folks to try and then sort of
extrapolate that and make it their own
with their product yeah yeah so for
example like you know we look at one of
the things that we do really well is we
provide resources to employees wherever
they are around the globe whatever
language they're in we give therapists
in their country and we believe that
it's really important to be able to
provide your employees if you're a large
Global organization all of your
employees around the world with
Equitable access to high quality mental
health care that's what we believe and
that's also a differentiator of ours and
so those kinds of statements whatever it
is for your business I think can be
really really powerful
super helpful and so in that example
it's possible that a um prospective
buyer or business believes in uh
providing a benefit or treatment for
employees based in one area that may
differ for employees based in another
area
exactly yeah
[Music]
yeah there there are a few that I'll
talk through one
uh we talked about adapting this like
Roi you're going to save hard dollars by
moving forward with Modern Health and
you talk to your CFO about this and uh
he or she poked holes in uh this like
Roi statement that uh any vendor can
come with and ultimately for your CFO it
was all about like does the executive
need this product is it something that
they consider critical to the success of
their organization
um and so a big takeaway from that well
actually there are two one is it's
important for the seller of the product
to do some Discovery around what does
your CFO care about
um because if somebody asks uh you that
your answer is going to be different
from the CFO who only cares about the
ROI analysis um so it's important for
sellers to to do that Discovery and sort
of come up with a custom uh plan for
getting past the the gatekeeper the that
in today's environment as a CFO and then
the second thing that comes to mind I
loved your story Hannah around uh we
talked to our CFO and it's almost
universally true where the the product
that you are selling at your business
you have the buyer of that product
internally and so you know at benefits
we were selling uh HR largely HR uh
software we had HR people within the
company
um at Rex we were selling to Founders
and finance leaders well we had Founders
and finance leaders in the company and
having conversations from the
perspective of what do you care about
you can learn so much from those I
remember we had
um Pedro and Enrique who were the
co-ceos at braxo the founders and then
we had Michael
um and other folks in Finance and
Accounting uh Michael Tannenbaum who was
our CFO uh talked to the sales team
about things that resonate how to
position the product and so uh companies
probably under leveraged that internal
resource around
um you know what what the buyer if they
are selling to this this person
externally what what they would care
about
changes that you've made that have had a
big impact in this new selling
environment
yeah I mean I think those are are
probably the biggest ones and then
really coaching our our SDR team as well
on how to ensure that we're getting
conversations with you know the director
of benefits the vpa benefits more senior
levels who have more sort of broader
insight into the decision-making process
at the organization I think has been
helpful awesome
um good segue so uh you manage a large
sales organization SDR sales I mean I
think you have some Channel sales in
there with the the broker Channel and
more
um in this new environment have you made
any changes just to set context to the
sales org at Modern Health
yeah we have I mean we're we're still at
a phase where we're growing really
quickly that said we we understand that
you know the changes that are happening
and in the broader macroeconomic
environment and the the premium that's
placed on efficiency and whatnot so
we've really been thinking about how do
we allocate resources most effectively
and so one of the things we're doing is
we're not even though we're scaling
Revenue significantly we're not adding
account Executives we're actually
putting that Revenue to areas to make
our current account Executives more
productive
um so one example of that in our
business is as you mentioned it we have
Channel Partners they're benefits
Consultants we get a lot of leads from
them we have a role called partnership
managers and at this point you know four
years in we sort of have a pretty good
understanding of how much revenue we can
generate per one partnership manager and
so for us we you know we have that math
and so we can say okay if we add X
number of Partnerships managers we're
going to get this much more leads for
the business this much more revenue and
so that's one example of an area that
you know we think we can get more
productivity out of our AES which has
the added benefit for the team as well
of having higher earning potential
having more at bats and so that's one
change we're making is figuring out
where we can put those dollars so that
we can grow Revenue even faster
and so my interpretation of what you
just said is you looked at the size of
each of the different teams or
organizations and you determined that
you may have too many folks in the AE
role and not enough folks in something
like a Partnerships role maybe an SDR
role and so the end result of that
analysis was you probably remove the
sort of lowest performing folks on the
AE side and invest the uh dollars that
you save on those AES in Partnerships
and SDR and the ultimate result of that
sort of reorganization that I've just
described is more revenue for the
business is that the approach that you
all took yeah I mean I think we're
looking at it in every area like how you
know every dollar we spend what's the
biggest lift we're going to get so
whether that's investing more in our SDR
organization or that's investing more
and technologies that are going to boost
our our lead gen and lesson technologies
that you know aren't going to do that so
I think it's you know for me this
environment is just pushing us to be
stronger as a business and you know make
some some decisions that are really
going to propel us through that next
phase of growth and so I think you've
talked about this on on previous
episodes but really looking at this is
like an opportunity both for growth of
the business and growth of individuals
um I think it's it's really kind of like
sharpening the knife
in when it comes to the team sizes
specifically so we've talked about three
SDR just like Partnerships or Channel
sales team and then the traditional
sales team that is AES how do you
determine what the right number of folks
to have on each of these teams is yeah
it's not easy and I will say I've gotten
it wrong I've gotten it you know two
bits sometimes it's like too many
sometimes it's too less it's really
really hard
um and I think you know this as well as
soon as you work for a company where you
start to get some Traction in the market
the first thing you'll hear from you
know your board or from investors or
from even from your own leadership team
is often well just hire more AES you
know every 80 will have a two million
dollar quota higher 10 will generate 20
million for the business and I think you
and I both know that sometimes that math
it doesn't actually work out like that
and and it can be pretty painful if you
do take that approach and so I think at
the beginning I sort of maybe over
rotated and you know we got to gosh you
know maybe half of where we are now with
like seven AES and so we were super lean
probably a little bit too lean
um and then you know you start to get
like okay we gotta scale up more and and
yeah if you're not if you don't have the
leads behind it that can be a really you
know risky place to get with with
continuing to hire at that at that pace
yeah
um scaling uh sales teams scaling
Revenue whatever framing you want to use
it's a lot more challenging than just
plugging numbers in a spreadsheet um as
we've learned I'll I'll tell a story
about zenefits uh where Hannah and you
and I both lived this
um and then I'll try and get to the way
that I determine the right size of teams
like the the things that I use in
determining
um but it's benefits this was back in
2015 we had just raised 500 million
dollars and so we were very cash rich in
in the sort of like April May of 2015
time frame we started getting warning
signs that uh pipeline wasn't scaling in
line with what we needed it to to hit
future Revenue targets
um and so it wasn't that we were missing
like April May targets it's that we
weren't creating a new enough new
opportunities to hit Revenue targets for
the second and half of the year and the
decision that we made was in the summer
of 2015 we hired about 90 new sales
people each month June July August 60
sdrs and 30 AES in each of those months
this was all done down in Phoenix and we
knew that like a lot of stuff would
break
uh we knew that first of all not many
people are a good chunk of these folks
wouldn't even make it through the
training
um so we would actually end up with like
40 new sdrs so two-thirds or we lose
about a third during training we ended
up with 40 sdrs and 28es because you
know we'd make some Miss hires we knew
that
um the the folks would not perform to
the same level of the historical team
because they would be brand new and so
we couldn't expect to have the same uh
you know onboarding or ramping
trajectory that uh earlier folks had
um
and we knew that it would be a little
bit of like the blind leading the blind
deleting the blind there would be uh a
new AE sitting in a class with a brand
new manager right next to them like
their manager with maybe like a brand
new trainer leading them on like how to
sell his benefits
um and so these folks weren't totally
set up for success I think the way that
we thought about it though was it was a
bit of a winner take all market and we
had this existing team of
successful people in whatever we added
on top of these existing folks would be
incremental revenue and so the existing
team would continue performing the way
that they had been historically and this
new team would close some Revenue
incrementally more than what the
existing team was closing and we were
wrong
um what actually happened is on the SDR
side we added all of these new sdrs to
the SDR organization and it was dilutive
to what was it the art what already
existed and so if a current SDR had a
few hundred accounts and these accounts
were of a certain quality when we added
you know 2x the team size we had to dig
deeper into lower quality accounts and
we had to have fewer accounts per SDR
and what that meant was even the
existing team was creating fewer
opportunities than they had historically
and the quality of those opportunities
was lower the same thing was true on the
AE side we had AES that were receiving
lower quality opportunities because of
what I just described on the SDR side
and they were receiving fewer
opportunities uh again because of what I
described where opportunities were
spread to more people and the people
were less tenured
um and so the actual result of hiring a
bunch more sdrs and AES wasn't that we
had incrementally more uh Revenue but
sort of less efficient revenue on a per
rep basis we actually had less Revenue
we closed less Revenue by hiring all of
these people because it was so deludive
to the existing team and I believe that
that is what has happened with a lot of
companies over the last couple years
where they have over hired
um and it has been deluded to an
existing successful team the efficiency
across the board has been diminished and
now we're seeing a bunch of layoffs to
right-size these teams the same result
that we had at zenefits where we went
through a number of rounds of layoffs
subsequently of what I'm describing
um the other thing that happened at
xenovitz that's I think relevant for
this conversation we took this
environment that was company crushing
Revenue targets were the fastest growing
tech company ever at the time
seventy percent of the team over quota
everybody making money because 70 of the
team was over quota and people are
getting promoted left and right uh you
started as an AE you got into leadership
very quickly because you crushed it
um that same experience was true for a
lot of other folks and we went from that
environment by the end of the summer
nobody would say
have new targets nobody was getting
got too many
people and so it was this like culture
of winning
um it like the most extreme uh possible
example to like just this really
depressing environment where nobody was
successful nobody's getting promoted
um and so again these are some
consequences that we didn't consider and
I'm gonna quickly uh hopefully because I
I tend to talk a lot uh I will try and
quickly go through three things that
I've found helpful in determining the
right size of the team
um so two of them are objective the
first one is leads do you have enough
demand to support more sales people and
the test for this is I look at reps
calendars I just do a calendar share how
many customer calls is each rep having
on a daily basis and are they are they
full can they take more or are they
overflowing with customer calls and if
they are overflowing with customer calls
it's a good test for being able to add
more people to the environment
um you can also just talk to them do you
have enough demos on your calendar I
remember it's innovates reps were
complaining I can't take more demos like
please provide help
um and so we knew
um that it was time to hire more folks
uh so ask reps do the calendar test
um if you hire more people when reps are
already sort of starving for leads your
sales are going to dip because you're
just gonna spread the limited leads that
you do have to reps that are less
tenured and have a lower conversion rate
the second thing this one's also
objective do reps Source their own
revenue and how much revenue is each rep
generating on their own through outbound
um brex we set the expectation from a
very early stage that you are are going
to outbound and about 50 of our closed
Revenue was outbound to AE and so we
knew that if we hired and it was
Universal all AES were closing Revenue
it wasn't like an outlier or two that
was pulling up the rest of the team and
so we knew that if we hired new AES and
they just mirrored the existing
environment we would actually generate
more Revenue because they were sourcing
their own demand and closed Revenue
through outbound
um and so just look at the data where is
your Revenue coming from if it's from
outbound through your AES uh you you can
expect that to continue with scaling the
team and then the third thing this one's
a bit more subjective uh is the new hire
set up for Success
um and so you can just sort of imagine
yourself in the new hires shoes coming
into the role will the average person be
successful and I think there are a
couple ways of determining this one is
um is the majority of the team over
quota
like if most people aren't successful in
the existing org why are you hiring more
people into an environment where the
average person isn't already successful
and then the second one which is just a
little bit subjective you know it's in
if it's like we should have we really
should have known that that brand new
SDR just graduated college sitting in
the the classroom training on day one
right next to their manager it's also
their day one at the company led by a
new trainer that person's not going to
be successful and so you have to do some
sort of a subjective assessment of is
the sort of infrastructure that we have
in place such that the average new
person will be successful in this
environment from sort of like a
leadership uh managerial structure
standpoint so those are the three things
um do we have the demands to support
more folks
um are our AE is sourcing their own
revenue and uh is is this new hire set
up for Success given the environment
that exists today I don't know if you
have any any uh thoughts or experiences
based off of any of that yeah I mean
I've obviously lived through most of
those
of those I would double down on what you
said it's like it's all about lead it's
like you know we we take a p when we did
the plan for this year we just
painstakingly looked at how many leads
we realistically thought we could
generate obviously we're going to have
aggressive targets but we went to you
know our Partnerships team our marketing
team and we said okay how many leads can
you generate and that sort of serves as
the basis and then one of the other
things we look at and and Ryan bash on
my team who I know you've worked closely
with who is one of our phenomenal sales
leaders he really looks at this in a
detailed level is like how many Dem how
many new calls per week should an AE be
taking from the standpoint of looking at
the ACV and the conversion rate what's
going to get them to the Target but then
also looking at you know like two years
to your point like will they feel like
that is enough to make them successful
and so if you get down to that very
simple metric and you can align on that
as a team like if we can just get to
four calls per week you know maybe in an
Enterprise environment it's one call a
week maybe in an SMB environment it's 20
calls a week whatever you know and then
you can work backwards from there to say
like you know based on the number of of
leads we can get how many AES will we
have in seed and and like you said I
mean it's so critical to get that right
because you've spent all this time and
energy recruiting all these really good
AES and you want to make them successful
and I've almost you know even a really
high growth environments I've almost
never seen AE capacity being the
limiting factor to growth like a if you
hire good AES by definition they want to
be the best they want more at bats they
want more earning potential
um and so that you know I think you can
just you know increase productivity that
way
so don't hire sales people in a demand
or lead poor environment
um you will end up with less sales
if your environment today if you share
rep calendars and you see a lot of white
space or you see a lot of meetings that
are not meetings with customers
um so like blocks to do prospecting
um things like that it likely means your
team is too large and if you cut the
bottom performing whatever percent of
the AE team what that means is you will
give the limited number of opportunities
that you do have to performers that have
a higher conversion rate and actually
convert more revenue or more sales with
fewer sales people
um and so that's I I think a good way of
determining do we have the right size
team do we need to hire or do we need to
shrink the team a bit as painful and uh
frustrating is that experience is
because it's it's generally preceded by
mistakes like the ones that I described
it benefits we just never should have
hired all of those people
um but you need to course correct
um and so a lot of companies are doing
that and hopefully this is helpful in
determining sort of like how deep to cut
if you need to or potentially how many
folks to hire if you need to uh do that
and you're in the fortunate position
yeah thank you so much everybody for
listening in this is episode seven with
Sam blonde and Hannah Wilson in the
books Hannah thank you so much for
joining we'll see you back here in the
next week or two for episode eight okay
bye-bye foreign
[Music]